Source URL: https://www.hhv.de/en/records/item/ts-bayandalai-wind-of-oirat-1383404
Site: HHV
artist: Ts Bayandalai
title: Wind Of Oirat
label: Night Defined
format: Vinyl LP
genre: Electronic & Dance, Electro
release_date: 24.04.2026
price: 28,99 €
image_urls:
  https://a0.cdn.hhv.de/items/images/generated/970x970/01383/1383404/1-ts-bayandalai-wind-of-oirat.webp
downloaded_images:
  Ts_Bayandalai_-_Wind_Of_Oirat.jpeg

description:
Wind of Oirat is the full length debut by Mongolian independent musician and sound artist Ts Bayandalai. Following his acclaimed 2020 EP Kimel, he now presents a further matured, composed and refined version of his signature sound, which combines traditional Mongolian music and instruments with influences from experimental music and post-rock. Deeply rooted in the cultural traditions of his homeland, Ts Bayandalai, who grew up in a nomadic family in the Mongolian steppe, explores nature and its myths, his ancestral roots, and the relationship between humans, animals and nature. Artist Bio: Ts Bayandalai is a Mongolian independent musician and sound artist. His childhood on the steppes shaped a deep sensitivity to natural and ethnic sound. To create his individual, deeply rooted yet modern soundscape, he combines traditional Mongolian musical elements with post-rock, experimental and electronic music, as well as from outernational music influences. Born into a nomadic family on the steppes, Ts Bayandalai grew up wandering the vast grasslands with shepherds, absorbing the resonances of the horse fiddle and guitar — experiences that remain a primordial source of inspiration in his work. Founder of the avantgarde band Horse Radio (2012) and the experimental project December3AM (2015), his compositions navigate cultural memory and contemporary aesthetics, reconstructing pastoral landscapes, temporal layers, and emotional spaces through sound. His EP Kimel, released in 2020, manifested a delicate sculpting of sound, space, and cultural motifs, presenting a listening experience that is at once primal and modern. Ts Bayandalai’s performances span China, Mongolia, and major independent music venues and festivals across Asia. His artistic vitality and creative autonomy have earned him critical acclaim and a devoted following in the international folk music and experimental music communities. Credits: Guitar: Ts Bayandalai Vocals: Ts Bayandalai Bass: Erdenbayar Drums: Li Ping Drums 2: Wang Yong Synthesizer: Li Ping Recording Engineer: Li Ping Mastering Engineer: Li Ping Horse Fiddle: Unur Saxophone: Yu Cheng Ox Horn: Oyundalai Backing Vocals: Tengis Recording Studio: Astrodome Studio Translation: Carolina Rodrigues Artwork: Studio Fjeld Mastering & Cut: Loop-O Pressed at Austrovinyl Special Thanks to Carolina Rodrigues C & P 2026 Night Defined Recordings
tracklist:
Нет треклиста
