Source URL: https://www.hhv.de/en/records/item/house-of-all-inklings-1376333
Site: HHV
artist: House Of All
title: Inklings
label: Tiny Global Productions
format: Vinyl LP
genre: Rock & Indie, Indierock | Alternative
release_date: 02.04.2026
price: 29,99 €
image_urls:
  https://a1.cdn.hhv.de/items/images/generated/970x970/01376/1376333/1-house-of-all-inklings.webp
downloaded_images:
  House_Of_All_-_Inklings.jpeg

description:
It's hard to fathom Martin Bramah's trajectory from his beginnings as a guitarist/writer behind two crazily influential postpunk albums - The Fall's Live At The Witch Trials and Blue Orchids' The Greatest Hit (Money Mountain) (vocalist on the latter too, of course) - then nearly three decades of sporadic-at-best activity, offering releases just frequently enough to remind fans of his peculiar brilliance . . . before another stay in the void. Chalk it up to what you want - Mark E. Smith's utter usurpation of The Fall, his split from partner Una Baines after Blue Orchids' debut, the vague collapse of rash experimentation in `underground' music as early `80s nu-pop and American college rock diluted any real spirit, a few failed attempts at working with with Mark again . . . and maybe just life getting in the way. A sense of lost opportunities isn't tough to justify. Inasmuch as Martin was originally the singer for The Fall - Mark began as guitarist but couldn't play! - and given that the group's mythology was born in an era before that gang of Mancunian misfits had even thought of playing, it's high irony that 49 years after The Fall began, Martin has both become wildly prolific and the leader of a band with more rights of inheritance to The Fall's credibility than any other living person could justify . . .yet the band isn't remarkable for that as it is for the range and wealth extent of their collective powers and talent: two greatand original guitarists, three of the UK's most daringly-skilled drummers, a genuine bass legend, and a brilliant spare Blue Orchid guitarist. Four albums in, the HOUSE Of ALL is getting ambitious, with each album a subtle improvement on the last, forging a path away from their pasts without denying a thing. Inklings differs from the first three for not having being largely improvised at first, with sounds, rhythm, groove and melody later forged into songs. They rehearsed! They had fun doing it! They're going on an extended tour! There were even extra tracks! We'll leave it...
tracklist:
1. Spirit Salient
2. The Rebel Duke
3. Wrecked
4. Valiant Heart
5. Prince Of This World
6. Time Is Out Of
7. Joint
8. My Throbbing Heart Shall Rock Thee
9. Ours Is The Fall
10. Sweet Remembrencer
11. I Am Thine
