Source URL: https://www.hhv.de/en/records/item/vanessa-haynes-wild-balloons-1383461
Site: HHV
artist: Vanessa Haynes
title: Wild Balloons
label: Vanessa Haynes
format: Vinyl LP
genre: Organic Grooves , Electronic & Dance, Funk | Soul , Nu Disco
release_date: 07.04.2026
price: 29,99 €
image_urls:
  https://a1.cdn.hhv.de/items/images/generated/970x970/01383/1383461/1-vanessa-haynes-wild-balloons.webp
downloaded_images:
  Vanessa_Haynes_-_Wild_Balloons.jpeg

description:
Arguably one of the UK’s greatest vocalists, described as having a voice 'nothing short of mesmerising' by UK Soul, Trinidad born, Vanessa Haynes invites you to experience her very own brand of soul. Drawing together a soundscape painted by roots, blues, 70s disco and old-school soulful songwriting, new EP, ‘Wild Balloons’ lays down never-before-recorded originals. Hayne’s songwriting is filled with relatable, real-life experiences, speaking of love, relationships – both good and bad - and memories of the innocence and potential of childhood. The songs come from the perspective of a grown woman who has lived and loved richly over a 25 year career. All songs are written by Vanessa, with some collaborative writing on tracks with Natalie Williams and Hannah Vasanth; Kwabena Adjepong and her husband Tom O'Grady of Resolution 88. ‘Wild Balloons’ presents an opportunity to get to know more about the woman known for her inimitable vocal style and unforgettable performances. The soundscape is guitar-heavy, harmonically rich and rhythmically groove-led – with minimal production. Says Haynes ‘I wanted the record to make the listener feel like they’re in the room with us. It was important to me that the record reflects the music we make together on stage. The contributions of the extremely talented musicians I am lucky enough to have in my band have been integral to the sound we’ve created. Recording the E.P. at Rimshot Studios was a dream.’ Haynes dropped the first single from the E.P. ‘I Blame Myself’ on 6 th January – her birthday, with minimal warning or fanfare and yet it’s been a stealthy fan and DJ led success, debuting at no. 4 on Starpoint Radio’s UK Soul Chart Breakers, lingering for the last month in the top 20 of Solar Sweet Rhythms Chart and featuring on Tony Minvielle’s Jazz FM show. The second single, (also called) Wild Balloons will be released on Valentine's Day, 14.02.2026, with the full EP then released on 26th March 2026. Haynes describes the single as a coming-of-age song about innocence and the naivety and purity of youth – ‘it reflects me as a little girl’.
tracklist:
1. Wild Balloons
2. It's Too Late
3. Even If
4. Daisy Lane
5. I Blame Myself
6. These Little Things
7. Strangers
8. These Little Things (Explicit)
